*Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad*

I've previously read (and written about!) this book, but I had been yearning to revisit it, which I'm glad I did. The first time I read this book, which was during my junior year of high school, it was assigned, and I was required to annotate it (which sucks the fun out of everything). This time, however, I thoroughly enjoyed the book, and ironically took more away from it than when I had to stop and write my thoughts about each page. I found the book's theme very pertinent to today's world, especially in imperial America, which made the book even more engaging. I do recommend that this book is in the high school curriculum—just as long as annotations aren't required.

In this book, against the untamed landscape of the African Congo, Conrad skillfully reveals the dehumanization and alienation stemming from the European imperialists' brutal exploitation and manipulation. Through the recurring motifs of darkness and light, alongside the Company's chilling machinations and the intricate character portrayals of Marlow and Kurtz, imperialism's insidious effects are piercingly critiqued. Conrad's personal history with his homeland (subjugated by imperial powers) and his background in the British Merchant Navy make this skepticism no surprise. He reveals the commodification of both land and people, illustrating the pervasive dehumanization inherent in imperialist endeavors. This is the inherent alienation of imperialism. While I didn't think the depiction of Kurtz's greed and despotism reflected reality (Heart of Darkness focuses on individual corruption rather than systemic exploitation; that is, imperialism's evils are presented as not stemming from economic exploitation but the personal moral failings and desires of those in power), this book was a rewarding re-read. 

A lot can be gained from reading this book more than once. We must confront the human cost of unchecked power and exploitation in the relentless pursuit of profit. As Lenin wrote, imperialism is the highest stage of capitalism. For as long as capitalism remains, so too shall imperialism.
